ART FOR IRS’ SAKE: HOBBY LOSS RULES AND ARTISTIC ENDEAVORS Maria Pirrone, St. John’s University Deborah Kliener, St. John’s University In Crile v. Commissioner, T. C. Memo. 2014-202 (Oct. 2, 2014), the United States Tax Court recently ruled that a tenured art professor’s artistic endeavors constituted a “business” rather than a “hobby.” Internal Revenue Code Section 183 limits taxpayers’ deductions to the extent of income earned if the activity is not engaged in for profit, i.e. a hobby, rather than a business. In this presentation, we examine the nine factors considered by the court in distinguishing between businesses and hobbies and discuss how the facts and circumstances of the taxpayer in this case prompted the court to decide in her favor. Practical recommendations are made to assist taxpayers to determine whether their art constitutes a hobby or an activity engaged in for profit and how to strategize their activities so that they too can deduct expenses despite the fact that a profit may not have been realized. Keywords: Tax Law, Hobby losses, Business and Trade Deductions INTRODUCTION How do tax courts distinguish between a fully deductible business expense and the limited deductions available to activities labeled as hobbies? And when the hobby involves the arts - how do these courts determine when the exercise of artistic expression is a hobby and when it is a business? A recent decision of the United States Tax Court tackled these very questions, giving us insight into the criteria utilized to differentiate the two and at the same time helping us discern how an artists’ activities are viewed by the IRS. In general, taxpayers may deduct ordinary and necessary expenses for conducting a trade or business. An ordinary expense is an expense that is common and accepted in the taxpayer’s trade or business and a necessary expense is one that is appropriate for the business. Generally, an activity qualifies as a business if it is carried on with the reasonable expectation of earning a profit. The hobby loss rules were created by the Internal Revenue Service to prevent taxpayers from entering into ventures primarily to incur expenses they can deduct from other income. If the activity is classified as a hobby, limitations are placed on expenses one can deduct. Controversies often arise due to the classification of an activity by a taxpayer. Before looking at the specific case, it is important to look at the relevant statutes. STATUTORY OVERVIEW Code Section 162(a) allows as a deduction all the ordinary and necessary expenses paid or incurred during the taxable year in carrying on any trade or business. To be entitled to the deduction, the taxpayer must be engaged in the activity with a profit motive. Code Section 183 provides in pertinent part that if an activity is not engaged in for profit, no deduction attributable to it is allowed except to the extent of gross income. Sec. 1.183-2(b) of the Income Tax Regulations sets forth a nonexclusive list of nine factors relevant in ascertaining whether the taxpayer conducted an activity with the intent to earn a profit. 