A Social History of the Urban Lifestyle Magazine
Abstract
The author traces the emergence over the past 30 years of a new media genre in U.S. cities: the urban lifestyle magazine. With the shift in the primary role of U.S. cities from production sites to consumption spaces after World War II, these magazines facilitated the branding of consumeroriented urban imaginaries. Using New York Magazine, Atlanta Magazine, and Los Angeles Magazine as examples, the author shows how these “branded cities” changed over time, discursively reflecting and contributing to the socioeconomic restructuring of their namesake cities and the formation of a new urban middle-class niche market.
 The last example I found of a cover model shot against an outdoor L.A. backdrop was June 1973 (see Figure 7, upper right hand corner), and it seemed like a mixture of the emerging L.A. lifestyle ideal with the traditional, generic urban skyline. It features an orangy-tan blonde clad in a string bikini and L.A. Dodgers baseball cap, swinging in a string hammock and sipping from a pineapple, with the skyline of downtown L.A. behind her. The headline reads “Stay in Town Summer: Making the Most of Sunning, Sipping, Dining, Camping, Shopping, Sightseeing, Concertgoing, and Other City Pleasures.”
 The article continues by stating that this individualism will come to embody “the personality the city will begin to take on in the next 12 months.” As opposed to the “good life of the 1950s” or the “adolescent frenzy of the 1960s,” the conclusion was that this individualist city “is the greatest urban civilization we can hope for in the 70’s,” one in which “it is possible for people to pursue their own private ends and yet coexist in reasonable harmony and sometimes even with shared pleasure.” As if to illustrate the point, peephole-like ads offered glimpses of groups in the hot tubs and living rooms of “exclusive” housing developments. The issue also carried articles on “Health Spas and Growth Centers,”“Best Southern California Stocks,” and “Weekending (or retiring) in Mexico.”
 This shift was noted recently by many veteran magazine writers and editors from across the United States in a New York Times article titled, “At Magazines, the Art of Stirring Debate Seems Lost” (Kuczynski 1999, C1).
 As Berthelsen (1999) details in his article, the particularly puzzling issue was why Disney would hold on to a magazine based in a town “anathema to magazine publishing”—L.A. having seen a highly publicized “shakeout” in the past three years of all other urban lifestyle titles, including LA Style, Angeles, and Buzz. Although Disney’s simple answer was LAM’s financial success, Berthelsen refers to unnamed “media observers,” mainly former LAM employees, who believed the more complete answer was LAM’s success at “keeping the lid on an independent media, or at least [keeping] out a new owner that might be more inclined to run critical articles on Disney.” These observers cited how Disney quickly bought up all the defunct competitors’ mailing lists and trademarks, as well as the company’s well-known “unspoken rule”—that is, “never do anything that could offend Disney.”

