Ecosystem services and disservices to urban lifestyle
The lifestyle of people living in urban areas has profound direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity. However, the role of urban lifestyle as a driving force of biodiversity change is not very well understood. This is partly because there is a gap between a social science approach focusing on lifestyle and a natural science approach focusing on biodiversity. We propose that the concept of ecological services and disservices is useful in connecting these approaches. Ecosystem services produced by urban green areas are the focus of a wide range of environmental studies, but disservices – such as safety issues in dark parks or pollen causing health problems – have gained only sporadic attention in environmental studies focused on urban ecosystems. We review and discuss different urban ecosystem disservices from a Northern European perspective. We conclude by addressing the key limitations and possibilities of the use of the concept of ecological disservices in urban biodiversity studies.
Urban biodiversity has been recognised as an increasingly important issue. In part, this is a consequence of rapid urbanisation. Three out of four Europeans now live in urban areas and it is estimated that by 2020 approximately 80% of Europeans will be living in urban areas, while in seven countries the proportion will be 90% or more (European Environment Agency Citation2006). Urbanisation is intertwined with changing lifestyle patterns, and both these developments influence significantly on biodiversity.
Urbanisation has a negative overall impact on biodiversity and especially on the native flora and fauna in areas under urban sprawl (Pauchard et al. Citation2006; Grimm et al. Citation2008). However, it is difficult to assess the impacts of urbanisation, particularly if long time periods and indirect effects are taken into account. For example, cities host a variety of plants that have been deliberately imported to gardens and parks, as well as species that have unintentionally spread to the cities (see NOBANIS Citation2008; Ööpik et al. Citation2008). Furthermore, not all native species suffer because of urbanisation. The species abundance and diversity in some parts of urban areas and especially in the fringes of cities can be substantially higher than – although often very different from – the diversity of the surrounding rural areas (Vähä-Piikkiö et al. Citation2004; Petersen et al. Citation2005).
In this article, we briefly review how urban lifestyle and urban biodiversity are connected. We give an overview on the concept of ecosystem services and disservices and continue by discussing different kinds of disservices from the perspective of everyday activities of urban people, i.e. urban lifestyle. We identify different ecosystem disservices related to urban lifestyle based on examples from Northern European cities. These examples are chosen for illustrative purposes only, and do not provide a comprehensive list. Furthermore, in order to focus our discussion, we concentrate on the disservices produced inside city limits even though disservices produced outside urban areas, such as pests creating instability to the food markets, can also be critical for the urban lifestyle. We conclude by addressing some of the key limitations and possibilities of the use of this concept in urban biodiversity studies.

