Performing Reparative Craft: Oreet Ashery’s Passing through Metal
Reparative craft
The apparent conflicts between the performative elements (the death metal band and the knitters) will be explored through the prism of Melanie Klein’s and Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick’s theories on the depressive-reparative position and how it relates to the paranoid.. Sedgwick’s interest in how Klein sees “the paranoid position always in the oscillatory context of a very different possible one: the depressive position” (Sedgwick Citation2003, 128) can be related to Ashery’s explorations of a culture at odds with itself.
In “Paranoid Reading and Reparative Reading, or, You’re So Paranoid You Probably Think This Essay is About You” (1997), Sedgwick defines the positions as follows.
For Klein’s infant or adult, the paranoid position—understandably marked by hatred, envy, and anxiety—is a position of terrible alertness to the dangers posed by the hateful and envious part-objects that one defensively projects into, carves out of, and ingests from the world around one. By contrast, the depressive position is an anxiety-mitigating achievement that the infant or adult only sometimes, and often only briefly, succeeds in inhabiting: this is the position from which it is possible in turn to use one’s own resources to assemble or "repair" the murderous part-objects into something like a whole–though, I would emphasize, not necessarily like any pre-existing whole. Once assembled to one’s own specifications, the more satisfying object is available both to be identified with and to offer one nourishment and comfort in turn. Among Klein’s names for the reparative process is love. (Sedgwick Citation2003, 128)
In their text “Toward a Feminist Theory of Care” (1990), authors Berenice Fisher and Joan C. Tronto write that
On the most general level we suggest that caring be viewed as a species activity that includes everything that we do to maintain, continue, and repair our ‘world’ so that we can live in it as well as possible. That world includes our bodies, our selves, and our environment, all of which we seek to interweave in a complex, life-sustaining web. (Fisher and Tronto Citation1990, 40)
Ashery’s work is unabashed when it comes to recombining elements in order to engender new ethical possibilities. She has stated that her work is “really about the idea of potential community” (Ashery Citation2017). This is in tune with Sedgwick, who argues that separating truth-value from performative-affect generates ethical possibilities beyond true and false, and moves toward reparative pleasure-seeking (things can be different) in tandem with paranoid suspicion (this is how things are). Sedgwick refers to
In considering Ashery’s work through the framework of care, these acts of reassembly or repair can be understood as a reparative craft. Craft is a material practice, shaped by the knowledges and hands of the collective (Cohen Citation2014). The reparative is a mode of care sensitive to the preservation, repair or revival of things beyond our selves. To perform reparative craft is to position ourselves within this creative impulse, sparked from an individual’s desire to lovingly repair what appears threatening, broken or harmed. Through this process, in curiosity and care for the other, our relation to it may be altered, and the guilt and anxiety felt may be mitigated through this creative relation.

