Terroir in a Dress. Understanding Antwerp-Style Fashion
The notion of terroir conjures images of quality, distinctiveness, authenticity, or in a nutshell good living. It is indisputably associated with French wine and more specifically with the AOC (Appellation d-Origine Controllée) label. In recent times the notion of terroir has been extended to a wide range of foodstuffs and drinks like cheese, fish, olive oil, salume, shrimp, honey, nuts, etc. Terroir qualification has become a smart marketing tool given its lubricating impact on consumer’s choices by evoking tantalizing connotations of local identity, authenticity, and sustainability. Yet so far no one has explored the link of terroir with fashion. In studying Belgian fashion and the Antwerp Six (standing for Dirk Bikkembergs, Ann Demeulemeester, Walter Van Beirendonck, Dries Van Noten, Dirk Van Saene, and Marina Yee) in particular (Pang Citation2019; Pang and Demoen Citation2019; Wang, Pang, and Leutner Citation2021) my initial intuition to explore connections between terroir and fashion is increasingly gaining solidity. I become more and more convinced that terroir might serve as a useful discursive tool to fully understand the unexpected rise of Antwerp Six and its enduring impact on new generations of avant-garde fashion designers beyond the borders of Antwerp, Flanders or Belgium. Terroir as a discursive tool refers to the historical re-organization of the wine profession in France. At first, the geological argument revolved around the soil and its interaction with its natural surroundings. It was the geologist James Wilson who advanced the classical interpretation of terroir in his book Terroir: the role of geology, climate, and culture in the making of French wines (Wilson Citation1998). However, in the past decade, the conceptualization of terroir as a fixed spatial and ecological entity has shifted to a more dynamic understanding based on constructed cultural processes as convincingly articulated by Amy Trubek in her work The taste of place: a cultural journey into terroir (Trubek Citation2008) as if nature became translated through culture into specific wines. Henceforth the vigneron (or the wine-maker) has taken center stage in the discursive making of the terroir narrative. He (for there are few females in this profession) plays a decisive role in crafting quality wine by exploiting the potential of the vineyards. Moreover, the wine-maker is represented as a “cultural icon of the French terroir” (Demossier Citation2010, Citation2011) as he succeeds in overcoming the paradox of global and regional identities. As a veritable “national hero of our time” (Demossier Citation2010, Citation2011) he re-invents the nation through the regions. In this discourse different levels of governance provide additional support to the wine-maker in rejuvenating regional and national French identity. In transposing the terroir concept to Antwerp style avant-garde fashion both the cultural location of Antwerp as well as the determining role of the designer with institutional support at the city, regional and federal level are taken into consideration. In analogy with the “geological” dimension, it can be argued that the Fashion Department of the Royal Academy of Fine Arts affords fertile ground for the nurturing of new talents. 


