Defining lifestyle
The concept of lifestyle is commonly used as something that needs to be changed if we want to achieve a sustainable development. But what does the concept of lifestyle mean? How is it defined? Educators and politicians, among others, need a definition to use the concept and understand how it is related to sustainable development. This paper suggests a plural definition based on a level analysis. There are four levels, from individual to global, on which lifestyle can be understood. There is also an alternative definition on the individual level from a cognitive science perspective. We need to understand the concept of lifestyle at these levels to analyse the relationship to sustainable development problems. Perhaps we should not look at lifestyle as a problem per se, but at the problems used to elaborate a lifestyle.
How should we understand the concept of lifestyle? The term is widely used in the media and in research on sustainable development and health. It seems as if the concept is taken for granted, just meaning manner of living or way of living. The Latin expression modus vivendi means manner/way of living but should be understood in terms of values and attitudes. Values and attitudes – since the ancient Greeks – are something the younger generation inherits from the older generation. Today the picture is more complex. One's values and attitudes are influenced by child culture milieus, youth culture milieus and multicultural milieus and we are also influenced by the media and globalization. All these different influences put a pressure on us to buy and use artefacts that directly or indirectly cause environmental problems.
The argument presented here is that we have to understand lifestyle in a pluralistic way. In the field of sociology, as in other fields, the concept is often used to mean one of many lifestyles. An individual can, in the form of different practices, express him- or herself through many lifestyles. For example, how to eat and what to eat (and drink); how to move around (by car, by bus, by bicycle, by foot, by aircraft, by boat and so forth) and where to travel, what to wear and when and where to wear it; where to live (urban, rural or in a suburb) and how to furnish; what to watch and read; what to work with; choice of education; how to engage politically or religiously; who to associate with; how (where and with whom) to spend leisure time; whether one uses drugs, tobacco or alcohol; and how to communicate (technology and language) (see, e.g. Katz-Gerro Citation2004; Bell & Hollows Citation2005).
The concept of lifestyle is commonly referred to as something that needs to be changed if we want to achieve a sustainable development. The very central question in this essay is whether lifestyle is a useful concept at all when related to sustainable development. If it is, is it possible to use one definition or do we need several definitions? The argumentation presented in this paper highlights the need to define the concept of lifestyle on various levels, thus using plural definitions, in order to enable a constructive discussion and avoid misunderstandings.

