LITERATURE REVIEW OF GARDENNING: 
 First, in a study of information phenomena in the hobby of cooking, it is obligatory to survey all writings in the field of LIS that are culinary, meaning: of or relating to the kitchen or to cookery (dictionary.com, 2005). The remainder of the chapter aims to illustrate how a study of information phenomena in the hobby of cooking is a contribution to social scientific knowledge. The argument is made that research into ISU focuses too narrowly on academic and professional realms, producing theories with limited applicability and a lacuna in understanding. It is shown that a corrective is emerging in the specialty of ELIS. However, upon closer examination ELIS research is shown to favor problematical situations, and have other methodological limitations. Outside of LIS, the field of leisure science offers a wealth of insights into hobbies as activities and social realms, but fails to explicate or theorize information phenomena. My study of information activities, resources, and spaces within the hobby of gourmet cooking contributes in different ways to each of the four research areas. 2.2 Culinary Research in LIS In the field of LIS, the first published statement about anything culinary was probably by Paul Otlet, who proposed that, "a taste of something" is a document (1934). Since then, this fanciful idea has not been further developed, and only a handful of studies 11 address culinary topics. These works approach the culinary context in general, unlike my study which focuses on the realm of gourmet hobby cooking. The writings I have found fall into three areas: cookbook indexing, culinary bibliography, and information systems for culinary scenarios. The precedents stimulate the imagination and suggest issues to explore in my project. To survey culinary literature in LIS, I performed successive searches in Library and Information Science Abstracts, utilizing the descriptor cookery as well as title searches for cookbook or cooking or gourmet. A few other articles came to me through citation chaining and the hands of colleagues. The review is selective and includes only longer works with a rigorous research premise (short or breezy articles about culinary topics were not included). 2.2.1 Cookbook indexing The most sustained research into culinary information phenomena is about the specialty of cookbook indexing. The textbook Indexing from A to Z (Wellisch, 1996) dedicates a chapter to this matter and notes, "…cookbook indexes are probably searched more often and by more people than many other [indexes]…" Cookbook indexing is challenging because of the variability of users (ranging from inexperienced home cooks to professional chefs), the multiplicity of possible index terms for any recipe, and the limited space for indexes allotted by publishers. The five facets that should be indexed for any recipe are: type of food, name, ingredients, region or place, and illustrations (pp. 94-97).. Overall, this batch of publications points to the multiple facets of cooking's main genre (the recipe), its inherent challenges to access, and the evolving nature of the culinary index. A matter to further explore in my research is the apparently significant role of the index in the use of cookbooks and the cooking process.
