Architectural Sciences and Urban Agriculture world affect agriculture negatively and cause food crises. In addition to food problems, the increasing urban population also creates many socio-cultural, ecological and economic problems. Urban agriculture is an important productive land use for the solution of urban and food problems, combining the concepts of city and agriculture (Türker & Akten, 2020; Türker et al., 2021). Urban agriculture is one of the popular sustainable concepts that has come to the fore in the world and in Turkey recently (Türker, 2021a). Urban agriculture is an alternative sustainable food system for urban areas (Türker, 2021b). Although its history goes back 3500 years, it has become popular recently (Türker & Akten, 2021). In recent years, urban agriculture strategies have gained importance in the context of sustainable urban development (Türker & Anaç, 2022). There are hobbies that people do outside of their work, and most importantly, they rest while they are trying and hobby gardening is one of them. Hobby gardening can be done not only in the garden but also on the balcony of your home. Within the scope of hobby gardening; Fields such as vegetable and fruit gardening, succulent and bulbous plants, and rock gardening are examined. Especially in recent years, everyone who wants to get rid of city life has turned to nature. Interest in hobby gardening has also increased in Turkey. In today's world, such gardens are increasing day by day in line with the demands of people. The first 164 Architectural Sciences and Urban Agriculture CHAPTER-7 practical example of hobby gardens was implemented by the public in Ankara. However, all public and private sector entrepreneurs can also create hobby gardens. Land can be rented or purchased for the implementation of the project. First of all suitable fertile land is required according to the situation of the region. If the lands in the hands of the public are taken into account, special provincial administrations, municipalities, district governorships, universities, and relevant ministries can easily establish and rent these gardens. Thus, both idle lands are evaluated and additional income can be obtained. In addition, private entrepreneurs can set up hobby gardens in the city or close to the city center, in easy-to-reach places. However, the income status of the region, land structure, demand situation, etc. should be well- researched. Because the entrepreneur will do this business for profit, he should pay attention to the fact that the land is suitable for a hobby garden and that there is sufficient customer potential in the selection of the land. The best time to start hobby gardening is in the spring, when the soil starts to revive. Since there will be a revival in gardens, flowers and plants with the increase in temperature, maintenance processes come to the fore in many areas from irrigation to pruning, from feeding to spraying. These are processes that are enjoyable, and require patience, but make people happy at the same time. If hobby vegetable farming is to be done for the first time, if he has no experience with soil and plant cultivation, he must first know vegetables 