 We quantified the productivity of food gardens in Laramie, Wyoming, over 3 growing seasons.
Methods. From 2012 to 2014, 33 participating gardening households weighed and recorded each harvest. Academic partners measured plot sizes and converted reported harvest weights to volume in cups.
Results. The yield of the average 253-square-foot plot was enough to supply an adult with the daily US Department of Agriculture–recommended amount of vegetables for 9 months.
Conclusions. Gardeners produced nutritionally meaningful quantities of food; thus, food gardening offers promise as an effective public health intervention for improving food security and nutritional health.
In the United States, major public health nutrition problems include low vegetable consumption, high food insecurity and obesity rates, and lack of access to a local grocery store.1–3 Growing vegetables in home and community gardens offers a promising strategy for improving these issues. A large body of observational research suggests that home and community food gardening yields a wide range of health benefits, including improved fruit and vegetable consumption, activity levels, and mental health.4–7
However, only a handful of studies have documented how much food gardens yield (Table A, available as a supplement to the online version of this article at http://www.ajph.org), and none have quantified these harvests in terms of vegetable servings provided. We have added to this emerging literature by (1) quantifying harvest results in a climate zone that is more challenging for growing than are the locations of previous studies, (2) quantifying results over 3 growing seasons, (3) calculating harvest values in nutritional terms as servings of vegetables yielded, and (4) quantifying how gardeners used their harvests, whether eaten immediately, stored, or shared.
of the harvest log. We have presented these reported uses as percentage of harvest by weight.
RESULTS
Over the 3 growing seasons, the average garden plot size was 253 square feet, which yielded 128 pounds of produce (0.51 lb/sq ft) worth $422 at the local farmers market. The average plot yielded 17 gardener-defined crop types and was enough to supply the US Department of Agriculture–recommended amount of daily vegetables for an adult for approximately 9 months. On average, by weight, gardeners ate 39% of their harvest, stored 31%, and gave away the remaining 30%.
Individual results varied greatly between plots and, to a much lesser extent, within repeat plots between years. For example, 2013 saw both the lowest harvest rate for a plot (0.01 lb/sq ft) and the highest (2.06 lb/sq ft). Of 12 plots that were a part of the study for more than 1 year, intraplot yield rates varied an average of 39% from year to year. However, average vegetable serving yield rates (adjusted for plot size) were very similar each year. Table 1 summarizes the results from each year.

